DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

## Railway Deployment (Recommended)

Railway is perfect for this full-stack application as it can host both the tRPC server and Next.js client together.

### Prerequisites
1. GitHub account with your code pushed to a repository
2. Railway account (sign up at [railway.app](https://railway.app))

### Step 1: Prepare for Deployment
1. **Database**: Your SQLite database will work perfectly in production. Railway supports persistent storage for SQLite files.

2. **Environment Variables**: Set these in Railway:
   ```
   NODE_ENV=production
   PORT=3002
   DATABASE_URL=file:./database.db
   ```

### Step 2: Deploy to Railway
1. Go to [railway.app](https://railway.app) and sign in
2. Click "New Project" → "Deploy from GitHub repo"
3. Select your trading-cards repository
4. Railway will automatically detect it's a Node.js project
5. Set environment variables in the Railway dashboard
6. Enable persistent storage for your SQLite database file

### Step 3: Database Setup
Your existing SQLite database will work perfectly:

1. **Persistent Storage**: Railway will maintain your `database.db` file between deployments
2. **Migrations**: Your existing Drizzle migrations will run automatically
3. **No Changes Needed**: Your current database configuration is production-ready

## Alternative: Render Deployment

### Step 1: Create Render Services
1. **Backend Service**:
   - Build Command: `npm run build`
   - Start Command: `npm run server`
   - Environment: Node.js

2. **Frontend Service**:
   - Build Command: `cd client && npm run build`
   - Start Command: `cd client && npm run start`
   - Environment: Node.js

### Step 2: Database
- Enable persistent disk storage for SQLite database
- Set DATABASE_URL environment variable to `file:./database.db`

## Alternative: Vercel + Railway Hybrid

### Frontend (Vercel)
1. Connect your GitHub repo to Vercel
2. Set build settings:
   - Framework: Next.js
   - Root Directory: `client`
   - Build Command: `npm run build`

### Backend (Railway)
1. Deploy only the server part to Railway
2. Update the frontend's API URL to point to Railway backend

## Environment Variables Needed

### Production Environment Variables:
```
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3002
DATABASE_URL=file:./database.db
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://your-backend-url.railway.app
```

## SQLite in Production

Your SQLite database is perfectly suited for production deployment:

### Benefits:
- **Zero Configuration**: No database server setup required
- **Fast Performance**: Excellent for read-heavy workloads like your trading cards app
- **Reliability**: SQLite is battle-tested and used by many production applications
- **Backup Simplicity**: Just copy the database.db file
- **Cost Effective**: No database hosting fees

### Considerations:
- **Concurrent Writes**: SQLite handles multiple readers but serializes writes
- **File Storage**: Ensure your hosting platform provides persistent storage
- **Backups**: Set up regular backups of your database.db file

Your current setup is production-ready! Just deploy and go.

Commit message:

chore(client, server): improve trpc deployment setup
Refines deployment instructions for Railway and separates
backend and frontend services. Updates environment variable
usage for trpc backend URL. Enhances server error handling
and logging mechanisms. Introduces new scripts and configs
for streamlined deployment.

relates to BA-123

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

## Railway Deployment (Recommended)

Railway is perfect for this full-stack application. We'll deploy the backend and frontend as separate services.

### Prerequisites
1. GitHub account with your code pushed to a repository
2. Railway account (sign up at [railway.app](https://railway.app))

### Step 1: Deploy Backend (tRPC Server)
1. Go to [railway.app](https://railway.app) and sign in
2. Click "New Project" → "Deploy from GitHub repo"
3. Select your trading-cards repository
4. Railway will automatically detect it's a Node.js project
5. Set these environment variables in Railway:
   ```
   NODE_ENV=production
   DATABASE_URL=file:./database.db
   ```
6. **Important**: Railway will automatically assign a PORT - don't set it manually
7. Enable persistent storage for your SQLite database file
8. Your backend will be available at: `https://your-app-name.up.railway.app`

### Step 2: Deploy Frontend (Next.js Client)
1. In the same Railway project, add a new service
2. Point it to the `/client` directory of your repository
3. Set these environment variables:
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://your-backend-url.up.railway.app
   ```
4. Railway will automatically build and deploy your Next.js app

### Step 3: Database Setup
Your existing SQLite database will work perfectly:

1. **Persistent Storage**: Railway will maintain your `database.db` file between deployments
2. **Migrations**: Your database setup script will run automatically on startup
3. **No Changes Needed**: Your current database configuration is production-ready

## Alternative: Render Deployment

### Step 1: Create Render Services
1. **Backend Service**:
   - Build Command: `npm run build`
   - Start Command: `npm run server`
   - Environment: Node.js

2. **Frontend Service**:
   - Build Command: `cd client && npm run build`
   - Start Command: `cd client && npm run start`
   - Environment: Node.js

### Step 2: Database
- Enable persistent disk storage for SQLite database
- Set DATABASE_URL environment variable to `file:./database.db`

## Alternative: Vercel + Railway Hybrid

### Frontend (Vercel)
1. Connect your GitHub repo to Vercel
2. Set build settings:
   - Framework: Next.js
   - Root Directory: `client`
   - Build Command: `npm run build`

### Backend (Railway)
1. Deploy only the server part to Railway
2. Update the frontend's API URL to point to Railway backend

## Environment Variables Needed

### Production Environment Variables:
```
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3002
DATABASE_URL=file:./database.db
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://your-backend-url.railway.app
```

## SQLite in Production

Your SQLite database is perfectly suited for production deployment:

### Benefits:
- **Zero Configuration**: No database server setup required
- **Fast Performance**: Excellent for read-heavy workloads like your trading cards app
- **Reliability**: SQLite is battle-tested and used by many production applications
- **Backup Simplicity**: Just copy the database.db file
- **Cost Effective**: No database hosting fees

### Considerations:
- **Concurrent Writes**: SQLite handles multiple readers but serializes writes
- **File Storage**: Ensure your hosting platform provides persistent storage
- **Backups**: Set up regular backups of your database.db file

Your current setup is production-ready! Just deploy and go.
